I just got a call from a reporter in
South Carolina because uh some staff at
um Fort Sumpter and another historic
site, Fort Sumpter, right, the first
shot of the Civil War,
>> my children's book has been flagged,
>> right, uh for removal. And so the very
ideas that we were able to talk about
and discuss and have exchange about are
now considered
>> sis dot essentially.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. in a society that has prided
itself on being open on freedom of
speech, freedom right of expression,
freedom of assembly. And again, this is
not happening because college students
are using their freedom of speech to
protest something, but because the most
powerful people in the world have
dictated and made it so. and all of
these institutions who five years ago
pretended that all of this was so
important to them um have have
capitulated.
>> Where would you say we are right now?
Because I've been thinking a lot about
what history is even good for right now.
Because what it does is it tricks you
into looking for these compares and
contrasts when really I actually think
it might be more useful to do something
that I think I'm hearing you say, which
is to just be present, right? and just
see what is happening because history as
a precedent.
I mean, I don't know if it's useful.
>> Don't ever say you don't know if history
is useful.
>> Well, I'm saying in terms of figuring
out where we currently are. Of course,
there's a use of it for history. I think
that's there's no question about
>> I think it does though. What I think
what I think
>> maybe
>> Go ahead. I I think maybe talk about
what a proper use of history is then. I
think um I mean there's lots of them but
but the the the two things I would focus
on for helping us in this moment is one
it helps us understand what we are
capable of.
>> Okay.
>> And I think that's really important. So,
you know, in my my latest piece for the
magazine, I try to show us about
historically where I feel like we are,
which is
>> where you go through and you look at all
the things that the Trump administration
has essentially undone.
>> Yes.
>> In form of executive orders and you know
the
like the destruction of these programs
and and rolling back these policies,
>> right? So, it's like a policy feels very
abstract. an executive order feels very
abstract and we suffer from um a
historical naivee in this country and
denialism and that's because we really
do believe in our mythology
>> in a way I mean all countries have
[clears throat] mythology but we really
do believe we're exceptional
>> and we really do treat all of these dark
extended periods where people don't have
rights uh where people are having their
rights violently surp oppressed where we
don't have democracy, we treat them as
these exceptional periods as opposed to
the norm. And so I wanted to show like
there was a time when there was a
integrated university in the south where
black and white children were attending
this school together in Louisiana where
we had black senators. Like a few years
out of slavery, black men were serving
in Congress, black people were serving
in the federal government. And that
progress was completely erased within 15
years.
>> You have none of that. And I think
because we don't know what we are
capable of, we can't imagine
what can happen in this period. So when
I'm writing, you know, it it's not just
abstract all of these executive orders
and all of this pressure that's being
placed on the private sector, on public
institutions, on universities to end DEI
to open their books and show and justify
every black person that's been hired or
every black person who's been admitted.
It's not abstract, right? You can see a
disappearance of us from these places
because we have seen a disappearance
before. And I think the other reason,
you know, what history can do for us is
it also can show us a road map out. So
what I'm arguing is like the our
coralate
now is about 1913 1920s
>> where we had this period of forward
progress.
It collapses.
>> This is the neater.
>> What ends reconstruction is a deal
>> between the northern industrialist
titans
>> and the white former Confederates.
Now whether those northern titans hated
black people or not, some did. Right. It
was irrelevant.
>> Right. Right. Right.
>> There's this great book called Race and
Reunion. Is David Blake.
>> David Blake. Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> And he talks about, you know, that
weariness of of white people right after
the Civil War of grappling with the race
problem. They're tired of it. They're
over it and they just want to be friends
again. and they were fighting over race
and now they just want to be friends
again. And the way that they can reunite
and be friends again is they got to let
black people go,
>> right? Do do what you want to them.
We're not even going to fight about them
anymore. There was a silence and an
acquiescence. Dealing with that original
sin is too hard. It's exhausting. It's
draining. You're making me feel things
that I don't want to feel. And I just
want to think about how great America
is. And I just want to be clean and have
clean hands. So, we just got to move on
and let that race stuff go.
>> Um, and black people need to be quiet.
>> Well, with that in mind, uh, [laughter]
I really I mean, I think that there is
something
I don't know, potentially confusing
about
what it means to have as an as a
descendant of slavery.
this split screen
of institutional
narratives. And I'm thinking
specifically about what it is like for
me
>> to walk around this city and go to all
these museums and to have every single
museum in New York City right now have
some major show about some great like
featuring some great black artist. The
Met right now has not only a Laura
Simpson show that is very good, but they
have the Super Fine show, but that the
the Costume Institute is putting on
about, you know, 350 years of black
people in clothes. Amy Cheryl's at the
Whitney. Uh Jack Whitten was at MoMA.
Rasheed Johnson basically has colonized
the the lobby at the the Guggenheim.
>> Can I just say something really quick
though? I I do just think when when
we're commenting on how black all these
exhibits are.
>> Oh yes, please speak.
>> We just have to acknowledge exhibits are
planned years in advance.
>> Okay. Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> So let's see what we see next year.
>> So I actually think this is a great
>> before we give too much credit.
>> I'm not giving Well, the credit this is
not a question of credit. This is just a
question of reality. Right. These shows
are happening. These shows are in a
response to this is George Floyd.
>> That's right.
>> These shows are George Floyd.
>> That's right. I mean I should have said
that
>> witness test will be what what
>> what comes in its wake what happens
after but I mean the reason to bring
them up though is
[sighs and gasps]
>> like is this are are we in the moment of
the veil coming down right and is this
the moment where we mark y'all remember
in 2025 when all the museums and then
>> right that this is like I think about
and I'm not going to remember his name
right now but like the very last repres
represent black representative of
Congress. I think he gets uh booted in
1898 or something like that, right? And
he gives this amazing speech and he's
like, I'm leaving. I'm the last one, but
one day we will return.
>> It would take almost a century.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. So I I almost feel like when we I
feel sad. Mhm.
>> I feel a deep sadness that what you are
seeing and the ability to go to all
these museums that it's going to be some
years before we see that again. Like
that that's the last little remnant of
this brief moment
>> that moment of
>> in time.
>> That reconstruction flavored moment.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> That that W boys talked about comes
down.
>> Nicole, [laughter] thanks for hanging
out and doing a little cannonballing
with us. I appreciate it.
>> Why is it called Cannonball?
>> Because, okay, it's a long story, but
basically just go with the energy. We
did it.
>> Okay.
>> I'm scared.
>> Of what?
>> I don't know what the hell I said.
>> You You said it all.
>> Exactly.